TALENTJUNKIE is a social networking recruitment platform for people and for companies seeking to hire them.

Finding, attracting, and recruiting the right talent are some of the most difficult and time consuming aspects of running any organization. People drive organizational culture, and the right culture is critical to an organization's success. Smart companies understand people matter. These companies will empower people, encourage them to contribute to the culture, to become the culture. Smart companies attract smart people and actively help them maximize their potential within the organization. Smart companies win more often.

Companies that understand people matter invest in their recruitment process. Unfortunately, many focus on the wrong things. Some build HR departments and silo them, leaving them out of touch with the business and its requirements. These HR departments use the 'resume' as the main recruiting tool. What they fail to understand is that resumes are really good at telling whether people are good at writing resumes, but really bad at telling whether they know anything about the role they will be asked to play. Some companies rely on external help and work with recruitment agencies. These agencies operate to maximize the chances of short term success across a pool of jobs. This means that it is in their best interest to make sure that a decision is reached as quickly as possible in order to maximize return on time invested in any position they may be working to fulfill. The best way to convince people to make a decision is to give them no choice - recruiters put forward a handful of carefully selected candidates out of which one or two will stand out. It is also in their best interest to create competition between the companies trying to recruit the candidates they are putting forward. This will inflate salaries, which for recruitment agencies working on commission is evidently advantageous.

For job seekers, finding the right job is even more difficult. The process is obscure, the landscape is filled with opportunists and until the candidate walks through the door of the company he is interviewing for, he will know very little about the role or what it is like to work for that company. If the candidate does not understand their audience, changes are their discourse will be misguided. In the event that the candidate is offered the job, they now have to decide whether they want to commit the next few years of their professional life to a company they don't really know.

---

We want to uncover new ways of sourcing talent, bringing people and companies together, and supporting the recruitment process. To that effect, these are some of the areas we are focusing on:

Building your brand

We want to allow people to build a profile that reflects their track record, skills and competencies, and interests and passions. But we don't want to stop there. Everyone is unique; we want to allow people to customize the look and feel of their profile. from something as simple as what colors are used, to choosing from predefined templates, and even allowing external developers to contribute - and maybe even sell - their custom templates (like Tumblr or WordPress do). We want people to think of their profile as the perfect introduction to a professional relationship.

Building the community

People can follow other people and other companies, rather than having to explicitly connect to them. This way - just like when using Twitter - you can follow people you are interested in without having to be introduced. If the people you follow are interested in you, they will follow back. People can also follow companies and other organizations, whether because they would like to work for a particular organization or simply interested in the work they do and what they are about. Company profiles will aggregate existing content from the web, such as blog posts or articles relevant to that company or even funding and financial details from sources like crunchbase, as well as location and photo integration with google maps and flickr.

People can keep up with what other people and organizations they follow are up to on their newsfeed. The newsfeed will aggregate profile updates, twitter updates, or content related to the organizations they are following. The newsfeed will also include any new opportunities at those companies they are following, giving companies the perfect channel to get in touch with a set of potential collaborators that have by then shown an interest in that organization.

Recruitment

An underlying recruitment platform allows people recruiting for their organizations to manage the entire process in an integrated workflow. A person, working for a particular organization, can post job opportunities. They will be able to manage the whole process, including collaboratively reviewing profiles, managing the interviewing process, get in touch with the candidates, and make job offers. Another important aspect to recruitment management will be our ability to integrate with specialist job boards and interests sites, providing reach and exposing job opportunities and companies to audiences that may not have been exposed to them otherwise.

We will also have access to a huge amount of information about people and companies. We want to leverage that data to, for example make suggestions about roles that would fit certain people. We would be able to, given people's profile, including experience, skills, or the people they follow, suggest positions that may have opened at relevant companies. Similarly, the data can be used to provide companies with a shortlist of candidates based on their requirements.


Integration

We will provide several integration options. We will allow companies to embed our content on their websites. They can, for example, list all the job opportunities that are currently available on their site using a simple set of tags on their markup.

---

The total recruitment market is valued at about USD 450 billion, and growing at an average of 12% annually. The US recruitment market is valued at more than USD 90 billion, while the UK recruitment market is valued at about USD 42 billion (GBP 27 billion). Typically, temporary and contract employment represents between 75% to 80% of the overall market. The economically active population in the US amounts to 163 million people, whereas in the UK to about 30 million people.

It is difficult to quantify the serviceable available market, but rough estimates indicate that between 35% and 40% of the market is driven by the Internet, whether through job boards or career sites, representing in the US over USD 30 billion. Direct sourcing represents about 8% of hires, with 45% of the effort being spent on social networks - this would represent, in the US alone, over USD 3 billion.

There is a huge opportunity. The slice of the market we will attack will depend on the direction we take, our ability to innovate, and how well we are able to engage our market.