TalentJunkie is a new place for professionals and companies to get to know each other. 


30 sec pitch (intro)

Problem
Solution
The opportunity
Competitive advantage
Business model
The promise
The ask



========
In an ever evolving world, where innovation and invention play an integral part to spur us into the future, our fate will be, more than ever, determined by our ability to reinvent our future. Talent and creativity play an increasingly important role in a world. 

Talent meets opportunity.

===

Join The Revolution
We are changing the way people and companies get to know each other.
build a personal brand

===

The problem

It is difficult to find talent
  - There is no single place to really understand what a candidate is all about
  - There is no single place to find talent by skillset
  - Candidates are not usually very good at marketing themselves
  
It is difficult to find the right organizations
  - It is difficult to know what organizations are hiring
  - It is difficult to understand an organization's culture and what they are about
  - It is difficult to know what it is to work for a particular organization

For a candidate, the recruitment process is painful and obscure
  - When going through a recruiter, the candidate
    - Does not know much about a company
    - Is sometimes not told much about the job itself
    - Is sometimes misled in terms of the opportunity
    
For the organization, the recruitment process is painful
  - It is difficult to find enough from CVs
  - Cost is high

Conceptually, people understsand.... The process is moving online with services like linkedin, monster and jobserve, or jobvite.

===

For years, Companies are made of people. And good people are hard to find, a bit like good companies to work for are hard to find.

Problem: crap to hire people or find a job. Because 
Opportunity: Solve the problem by 

===

The solution

  - A social network dedicated to professionals, with a focus on building their personal brand
  - A social network dedicated to organizations, with a focus on sharing the company culture and ethos
  - A platform that empowers talent and organizations through a fully managed recruitment process

===

We want to get rid of the gap between people looking for interesting jobs and organizations looking for talent. We want to provide a site that people use to have their profile they can share with people, either on the site or by sharing the link to their profile. People should also be able to follow other people and organizations they are interested in. This allows people to be up to speed regarding what people or organizations they are interested are up to. 

The organizations section will provide as much info as possible about the company, its culture, and what its like to work there. Company staff can also post job opportunities.

Underlying the site is a platform that allows organizations recruiting people to manage the entire process, from creating the job spec and sharing it with the community, through the hiring process, to appointment.

We want to level the playing field

Sourcing talent is a two way street. Today, candidates hire companies as much as companies hire talent.

=== 

The existing process for sourcing talent are, at best, rudimentary. At the same time, the chances a someone looking for a job has of finding the right job are close to none, when going through the traditional routes, such as recruitment agencies or anonymous job ads. 

Neither the talent or the recruiting organization is in control of the process, more often than not relying on third parties, like recruitment agencies. This happens mainly because neither sides is empowered to manage the process themselves.

The rise of the personal brand

The recommendation approach hasn't been working as well as initially thought. 


====

Blogs, social networks, such as Twitter, 






====


Do I dare live my own life, and not the life of others?
It is my life, no one else's.
Do I have the courage to see it through?

Do I dare own my future
I need to be all I can be
I want to achieve and believe, in me.

I want to make a difference.
I know I can make a difference.
I can be fearless.

And I want to be side by side with those who believe in what I believe in,
Those who feel and live and breathe
The way that I feel and live and breathe.

Because together, we are unstoppable.
Together we push boundaries, we take a stand. 
We change the world, we don't look back - or disband.

And when the time comes to measure my life,
I will measure it, not in words or yards or promises
But in the certainty that we made a difference