TALENTJUNKIE is a social recruitment platform that connects people with companies seeking to hire them.

The problem we are trying to solve is recruitment, and specifically the fact the find the right people, and conversely finding the right company to work for is a very difficult and time consuming process.

So, Imagine having one place to go to whether you are looking for your dream job, or looking to hire the dream team.

TALENTJUNKIE wants to revolutionize the recruitment industry, and change forever the way in which people and companies connect. We want to crush existing recruitment models and leverage the social aspects of the new web. 

We believe that the personal brand is becoming increasingly important. We want to help people build their brand online, by allowing them to create and customize their profile - including allowing them to use different themes that represent what they are all about, a little bit what myspace did a while back.

We want people to think of their profile as the perfect introduction to any professional relationship.

We also understand community is essential - we allow people to follow other people and companies they may be interested in. We enrich companies' profiles by leveraging existing data on the web, like twitter/blogs- allowing people to understand what a company is about, what they are working on, what they value, before they engage.

Underlying all this, we will provide recruitment platform to allow companies to manage the entire process in an integrated workflow. This is how we will make money. We have the option of charging at different points in the process. For example, when posting a job or on a hire.

Just a couple of things on the market.

The US and UK markets combined are worth about 130 million, split across several categories. About 30% driven by the web.

The total recruitment market is valued at about USD 450 billion, and growing at an average of 12% annually. The US recruitment market is valued at more than USD 90 billion, while the UK recruitment market is valued at about USD 42 billion (GBP 27 billion). Typically, temporary and contract employment represents between 75% to 80% of the overall market. The economically active population in the US amounts to 163 million people, whereas in the UK to about 30 million people.

I have been working part time on this for 3 to 4 months. I just hired a couple of designers to help. I will beworking on this full time from May, just serving my notice period at Groupm

  







People can follow other people and other companies, rather than having to explicitly connect to them. This way - just like when using Twitter - you can follow people you are interested in without having to be introduced. If the people you follow are interested in you, they will follow back. People can also follow companies and other organizations, whether because they would like to work for a particular organization or simply interested in the work they do and what they are about. Company profiles will aggregate existing content from the web, such as blog posts or articles relevant to that company or even funding and financial details from sources like crunchbase, as well as location and photo integration with google maps and flickr.

People can keep up with what other people and organizations they follow are up to on their newsfeed. The newsfeed will aggregate profile updates, twitter updates, or content related to the organizations they are following. The newsfeed will also include any new opportunities at those companies they are following, giving companies the perfect channel to get in touch with a set of potential collaborators that have by then shown an interest in that organization.
Recruitment

An underlying recruitment platform allows people recruiting for their organizations to manage the entire process in an integrated workflow. A person, working for a particular organization, can post job opportunities. They will be able to manage the whole process, including collaboratively reviewing profiles, managing the interviewing process, getting in touch with the candidates, and making job offers. Another important aspect to recruitment management will be our ability to integrate with specialist job boards and interests sites, providing reach and exposing job opportunities and companies to audiences that may not have been exposed to them otherwise.

We will also have access to a huge amount of information about people and companies. We want to leverage that data to, for example make suggestions about roles that would fit certain people. We would be able to, given people's profile, including experience, skills, or the people they follow, suggest positions that may have opened at relevant companies. Similarly, the data can be used to provide companies with a shortlist of candidates based on their requirements.
Integration

We will provide several integration options. We will allow companies to embed our content on their websites. They can, for example, list all the job opportunities that are currently available on their site using a simple set of tags on their markup.

We will also provide an API for 3rd parties to build applications on.
The opportunity

The total recruitment market is valued at about USD 450 billion, and growing at an average of 12% annually. The US recruitment market is valued at more than USD 90 billion, while the UK recruitment market is valued at about USD 42 billion (GBP 27 billion). Typically, temporary and contract employment represents between 75% to 80% of the overall market. The economically active population in the US amounts to 163 million people, whereas in the UK to about 30 million people.

It is difficult to quantify the serviceable available market, but rough estimates indicate that between 35% and 40% of the market is driven by the Internet, whether through job boards or career sites, representing in the US over USD 30 billion. Direct sourcing represents about 8% of hires, with 45% of the effort being spent on social networks - this would represent, in the US alone, over USD 3 billion.

The TALENTJUNKIE team luis@talentjunkie.net

